---
title: 🟡 Input
description: 'Work in progress - this component is not yet ready for use.'
---

# 🟡 Input

::alert{type="warning"}
Work in progress - this component is not yet ready for use.
::

## Basic

use the `NInput` tag to create a basic input.

::CodeGroup
  ::code-block{label="Preview" preview}
    :ExampleVueInputBasic
  ::
  ::Code{label="Code (Vue)"}
    ```vue
    <NInput v-model="value" />
    ```
  ::
::

## Color

<!-- @unocss-skip-start -->
`input="outline-{color}"` - change the color of the input outline.
<!-- @unocss-skip-end -->

::alert{type="info"}
You can use any color provided by the [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/customizing-colors) color palette, the default is `primary`. You can also add your own colors to the palette through the [Unocss CSS configuration file](https://unocss.dev/guide/config-file).
::

::Exemplar
  :ExampleVueInputColor
::

## Variant

`input="{variant}"` - change the variant of the input outline.

`input="{variant}-{color}"` - change the variant and color of the input outline.

:ExampleVueInputVariant

## Size

::Exemplar
  :ExampleVueInputSize
::

## Icon

`trailing="{icon}"` - add a trailing icon to the input outline.

`leading="{icon}"` - add a leading icon to the input outline.

::alert{type="success"}
By default we use `heroicons` for the icons, you can use any icon provided by `Iconify` through [icones](https://icones.js.org/), refer to [configuration](/getting-started/configuration) for more information.
::

::Exemplar
  :ExampleVueInputIcon
::

## Loading

`loading` - add a loading icon to the input outline.

::Exemplar
  :ExampleVueInputLoading
::

## Status

`status="{status}"` - change the status of the input outline.

::Exemplar
  :ExampleVueInputStatus
::

`disabled` - disable the input outline.

`readonly` - make the input outline readonly.

::Exemplar
  :ExampleVueInputDisabledReadonly
::
## Events

`@leading` - emit an event when the leading icon is clicked.

`@trailing` - emit an event when the trailing icon is clicked.

::Exemplar
  :ExampleVueInputEvents
::

## Slots

#### Leading

::Exemplar
  :ExampleVueInputLeadingSlot
::

#### Trailing

::Exemplar
  :ExampleVueInputTrailingSlot
::

## Props

```ts
interface InputProps {
  modelValue?: string | number
  type?: 'text' | 'password' | 'email' | 'number' | 'tel' | 'url'
  leading?: string
  trailing?: string
  status?: 'info' | 'success' | 'warning' | 'error'
  loading?: boolean
  reverse?: boolean

  nv?: {
    inputWrapper?: string
    inputLeadingWrapper?: string
    inputTrailingWrapper?: string

    inputWarningIcon?: string
    inputErrorIcon?: string
    inputSuccessIcon?: string
    inputInfoIcon?: string
    inputLoadingIcon?: string

    inputBase?: string
    inputLoadingBase?: string
  }
}
```

## Presets
