---
title: "Introduction"
description: "UnaUI, powered by the UNOCSS engine, is an atomic UI Framework. It offers components and presets for effortless creation of beautiful user interfaces."
---

# What is UnaUI?

**UnaUI** is an atomic UI Framework powered by the [UNOCSS](https://unocss.dev/){target="_blank"} engine. It provides components and presets for creating stunning user interfaces with ease.

::alert{type="warning"} 
This documentation is a work in progress. The package is not officially released yet, so some sections might be incomplete or missing until the first release. We're actively working to complete the documentation.
::

---

## Vision

UnaUI aims to be a comprehensive solution for modern UI development. Built on top of UNOCSS Atomic CSS engine, it emphasizes speed and simplicity. Generating CSS only for used utilities, UnaUI remains lightweight, even in large projects.

---

## Design Principles

Following UNOCSS design principles, being atomic is the core of UnaUI. It means that the framework generates CSS only for used utilities, ensuring speed and efficiency in any project size.

For example, the `UnaUI` provides different button variants, such as `solid`, `outline`, `link`, `soft` and more. A typical framework would generate CSS for all variants, even if you only use one for the entire project. UnaUI, on the other hand, generates CSS only for the used variant even if multiple variants are configured.

Solid variant with primary color example vs. typical framework:

:::CodeGroup
  ::code-block{label="X UI"}
```vue
  <XButton variant="solid">
    Solid Button
  </XButton>
```
  ::
  ::code-block{label="UNA UI"}
```vue
  <NButton btn="solid">
    Solid Button
  </NButton>
```
  ::
  ::code-block{label="Preview" preview}
    <NButton btn="solid">Solid Button</NButton>
  ::
:::

> Unlike other frameworks UnaUI get advantage of UNOCSS [shortcuts](https://unocss.dev/config/shortcuts#shortcuts){target="_blank"} feature to generate CSS for the **solid variant** and used [attributify](https://unocss.dev/presets/attributify#attributify-mode){target="_blank"} feature to act as the `prop` to the component to make it more customizable while keeping it readable and clean. In short the `btn` prop is not just a prop but a utility class also, so `btn="solid"` is equivalent to `class="btn-solid"` in UNOCSS.

Heres another example of button with `variant`, `color`, and `block` vs. typical framework:

:::CodeGroup
  ::code-block{label="X UI"}
```vue
  <XButton variant="solid" color="orange" block>
    Solid Button
  </XButton>
```
  ::  
  ::code-block{label="UNA UI"}
```vue
  <NButton btn="solid-orange block">
    Solid Button
  </NButton>
```
  ::
  ::code-block{label="Preview" preview}
    <NButton btn="solid-orange block">Solid Button</NButton>
  ::
:::

> Notice we used `orange` color, but most frameworks offers limited colors like `secondary`, `accent`, `danger`, and other fix colors across the projects so you have to configure it your own. However, UnaUI provides all [tailwindcss colors](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/customizing-colors){target="_blank"} with auto dark mode support. And yes we do not need other colors but the thing is, a typical framework generates CSS for all colors even if you only use one color across the project, while UnaUI generates CSS only for the used color but still offers all colors.

> Notice the simplicity of adding options like `block` in UnaUI compared to other framework that requires additional attributes, and note that `block` css is only generated if you used it, the same goes for other utilities and options.

In short, <b style="color: var(--c-brand-next)">Una</b> is a UI framework offers more customization, more flexibility, more power without sacrificing css bundled size and performance whether in local development or production, small or large projects.

---

## Features

::list{type="primary"}
- **Atomic Framework**: Configure what you need, and use when you need it.

- **Customizable**: Developers easily personalize application aesthetics using components, presets, and custom styles.

- **Fully Typed**: Comprehensive type definitions for UnaUI components ensure seamless integration with TypeScript and type-safe languages.

- **Theming System**: The framework offers a theming system that facilitates appearance changes via components, presets, and styles.

- **Auto Dark Mode**: UnaUI includes automatic dark mode, adapting to light or dark themes based on user system preferences, enhancing compatibility.
::

---

## Contributions and Feedback

Your interest in UnaUI is highly appreciated! For suggestions, bug reports, and contributions, please consult the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/una-ui/una-ui/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md){target="_blank"}.

Let's collaboratively craft remarkable user interfaces with UnaUI.
