---
title: "Installation"
description: "Installation instructions for UnaUI."
---

# Installation

Una UI offers 2 forms of installation:

::list{type="info"}
- You can install `@una-ui/presets` if you want to use the *UnaUI* configured styles and utilities to build your own components.
- You can install `@una-ui/nuxt` if you want to use the *UnaUI* built-in components with Nuxt 3.
::

---

## Framework

::alert{type="info"}
For now, UnaUI only supports Nuxt.js. We will add more frameworks in the future if there is a demand for it.
::

### Nuxt.js 

1. Install `@una-ui/nuxt` module:

::code-group
```bash [npm]
npm install @una-ui/nuxt 
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add @una-ui/nuxt 
```
  
```bash [pnpm]
pnpm install @una-ui/nuxt 
```
::

2. Add `@una-ui/nuxt` to the `modules` section of `nuxt.config.js`:

```js
export default {
  modules: [
    '@una-ui/nuxt',
  ],

  una: {
    // UnaUI options
  },
}
```

3. That's it! You're ready to go! 🚀

### Example Usage

Below is an example of `NFormGroup` `NInput` `NButton` components with the same functionality as the HTML example [above](#example-usage).

:::code-group
  ::code-block{label="Preview" preview}
    :ExampleVueBasicForm
  ::
  ::code-block{label="Code" highlight}
@@@ ./components/content/examples/vue/basic/ExampleVueBasicForm.vue
  ::
:::

::alert{type="info"}
You can check the full documentation for the [Components here](/components/elements).
::

## Presets Only

::alert{type="success"}
This is applicable to all UI library/frameworks that are supported by Unocss. Please refer to [Unocss documentation](https://unocss.dev/){target="_blank"} for more information.
::

1. Install `@una-ui/preset` module:

::code-group
```bash [npm]
npm install unocss @una-ui/preset 
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add unocss @una-ui/preset 
```
  
```bash [pnpm]
pnpm install unocss @una-ui/preset 
```
::

2. Add `@una-ui/preset` to the `presets` section of `unocss.config.ts`:

::alert{type="warning"}
If you don't have `unocss.config.ts` file, you can create it in the root directory of your project. Below is the recommended configuration for UnaUI Presets.
::

```ts
import {
  presetAttributify,
  presetIcons,
  presetUno,
  transformerDirectives,
  transformerVariantGroup,
} from 'unocss'

import presetUna from '@una-ui/preset'

export default {
  presets: [
    presetUno(),
    presetAttributify(),
    presetIcons(),
    presetUna(), // ✅
  ],
  transformers: [
    transformerDirectives(),
    transformerVariantGroup(),
  ],
}
```

3. Import styles in your `main.ts` or any other entry point of your application:

```ts
import 'unocss'
import '@unocss/reset/tailwind-compat.css'
import '@una-ui/preset/una.css'
```

1. That's it! You're ready to go! 🚀

### Example Usage

Below is an example of `input` `btn` `form-group` presets in a Vue component. You can use the same approach for other UI library/frameworks or even in plain HTML.

:::code-group
  ::code-block{label="Preview" preview}
    :ExampleHtmlBasicForm
  ::
  ::code-block{label="Code" highlight}
@@@ ./components/content/examples/html/basic/ExampleHtmlBasicForm.vue
  ::
:::

::alert{type="info"}
You can check the full documentation for the [Presets here](/presets).
::

---
